---
title: "Windows Server 2019"
date: 2023-05-08T17:32:48-05:00
weight: 70
---

The server just needs to be a domain controller so we can join the victim machine to a domain. Future iterations or scenarios may attack this server, and may require more features, but for now we'll just set it up as a DC.

## OS Installation

1. `Next`
2. `Install Now`
3. Select `Windows Server 2019 Standard Evaluation (Desktop Experience)` -> `Next`
4. `I accept the license terms` -> `Next`
5. `Custom: Install Windows only (advanced)`
6. `New` -> `OK` -> `Apply` -> `Next`
7. Set a password. It has to follow default password policies, but `P@$$w0rd` is sufficient.
8. Sign in. Highly recommend installing VMware Tools
9. In Workstation, VM -> Install VMware Tools
10. Open File Explorer
11. Select the D: drive
12. Run `setup64.exe
13. Accept all the defaults and install.
14. Reboot when it prompts you to.

## OS Configuration

1. Change Name
    1. Server Manager
    2. Local Server
    3. Computer Name
    4. `Change`
    5. Input a name (`DC01` works)
    6. `OK`
    7. `OK`
    8. `Close`
    9. `Restart Now`
2. Install AD Roles
    1. Server Manager
    2. Add roles and features
    3. `Next >`
    4. Role-based or feature-based installation -> `Next >`
    5. `Next >`
    6. Select `Active Directory Domain Services`
        * `Add Features`
    7. Select `DNS Server`
        * `Add Features`
    8. `Next >`
    9. `Next >`
    10. `Next >`
    11. `Next >`
    12. `Install`
    13. `Close`
3. Promot to Domain Controller
    1. Server Manager
    2. Click the flag (top right, next to `Manage`)
    3. Promote this server to a domain controller
    4. Add a new forest -> Enter a domain name (`cybermice.dev`) -> `Next >`
    5. Enter a DSRM Password (`P@$$w0rd` works) -> `Next >`
    6. `Next >`
    7. `Next >`
    8. `Next >`
    9. `Next >`
    10. `Install`
    11. `Close` (the server will restart)
4. [Join the Win11 machine to the domain](../win11#joining-the-domain)
